Initial 1.24.0 release notes (#15851)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.24.x/announcing-1.24/_index.md

Since its [announcement in 2022](/blog/2022/introducing-ambient-mesh/), the community has been hard at work [innovating](/blog/2024/inpod-traffic-redirection-ambient/),
[scaling](/blog/2024/ambient-vs-cilium/), [stabilizing](/blog/2024/ambient-reaches-beta/), and tuning ambient mode to be ready for prime time.

On top of [countless changes since the Beta release](/news/releases/1.23.x/announcing-1.23/#ambient-ambient-ambient), Istio 1.24 comes with a number of enhancements to ambient mode:

* New `status` messages are now written to a variety of resources, including `Services` and `AuthorizationPolicies`, to help understand the current state of the object.
* Policies can now be attached directly to `ServiceEntry`s. Give it a try with a simplified [egress gateway](https://www.solo.io/blog/egress-gateways-made-easy/)!
* A brand new, exhaustive, [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/istio/istio/wiki/Troubleshooting-Istio-Ambient). Fortunately, a number of bug fixes in Istio 1.24 makes many of these troubleshooting steps no longer needed!

> * Many new bug fixes. In particular, edge cases around pods with multiple interfaces, GKE Intranode visibility, IPv4-only clusters, and many more have been improved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Many bug fixes. In particular, edge cases around pods with multiple interfaces, GKE Intranode visibility, IPv4-only clusters, and many more have been improved.
```

### Improved retries

Automatic [retries](/docs/concepts/traffic-management/#retries) has been a core part of Istio's traffic management functionality.
In Istio 1.24, it gets even better.

Previously, retries were exclusively implemented on the *client sidecar*.
However, a common source of connection failures actually comes from communicating between the *server sidecar* and the server application,
typically from attempting to re-use a connection the backend is closing.

> With this change, we are able to detect this case and retry on the server sidecar automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the improved functionality, we are able to detect this case and retry on the server sidecar automatically.
```
